It is never too late to become a top
student. I used to struggle during my
first year at university and I used to
accumulate bad grades and now I'm a
student at Oxford University and I
recently received an award for my
outstanding PhD work. I am the perfect
example that anyone can be an academic
weapon if they want to. So this video is
going to be the ultimate guide on how to
ditch your old mentality and become an
overachiever in any aspect of academia.
I will cover five key areas. motivation,
time management, note-taking, study
methods, and exam prep. So, let's start
with the key ingredient, motivation.
Your mindset is either the most
important superpower that you will ever
have, or your biggest enemy. Having a
mindset where you don't believe in
yourself, where you don't care about
great and don't think about your future.
That is the most detrimental to your
success. In the end of the day, you are
the person creating your future and no
one can do it for you. You're the one
who needs to push yourself, who needs to
believe in yourself. Because I promise
you that anyone can be an academic
weapon with the right mindset and the
right approaches. Being a top student
starts with motivation. If you don't
want to study, if you don't care about
exams, you already lost. Think to
yourself, why are you taking this
subject? Why are you at this university
or this school? If your answer is that
you don't want to let down your parents
or you're afraid of the teacher, that is
not a good reason. Your drive needs to
come within yourself. And you can
achieve this if you think about the big
picture. If you do well in school, your
chances of getting into your dream
university are much higher. Your chances
of studying the subject that you love
are much more realistic. You get to
decide which career path you want to
take. And you're currently building the
foundational knowledge that is required
to get where you want to be in the
future. If you only sit down to study
because someone else tells you to, you
will never have the curiosity and drive
that it takes to understand and soak up
all of the knowledge that is needed to
perform well in school, in academia, and
in your career. If you don't know where
to find out motivation, or if you lack
that motivation, I recommend sitting
down and creating a vision board of
yourself, focusing on where you want to
be and what you want to achieve in life.
It might help you to find the drive in
yourself and to identify what exactly
you need to do to get to where you want
to be and identify why what you do now
is important for your future self. Next,
let's talk about time [music]
management. First tip I have is limit
distractions. Honestly, the older I get,
the more I realize how valuable time is.
It is honestly like a currency, but a
lot more valuable because you can't get
it back. We have about 16 hours a day
where we can actually do stuff, which
sounds like a lot, but if you're
productive person that gets a lot of
stuff done each day, it really isn't
that much time, especially if you spend
about 2 hours a day scrolling through
social media, that is more than 12% of
time lost every single day that you
could have used for something else. And
that is the big problem. If you sit in
the library to study and you just end up
doom scrolling, you actually just waste
your time whil it's not getting done
anything at all. So my advice is to
consciously think how you want to use
your time. A 1-hour session of active
studying without any distraction is so
much more valuable than sitting in the
library for 4 hours but actually just
being on your phone or chatting with
friends. Tip number two is to identify
priorities. This is especially true for
university where we have endless books
to read and it can feel quite
overwhelming not knowing where to start
and more importantly not knowing where
to stop. I myself used to start at
chapter one and try to learn everything
by heart, but then run out of time when
it came to later chapters. But not all
of the information or resources that
you're given by your teachers are
actually important for your exams. So
instead of blindly starting and like
trying to learn everything by heart in
one go, you need to have a plan and
identify what is actually important.
Usually professors drop loads of little
hints during the classes of the topics
that are important and that will come up
in your next exam. And if you pay
attention, you can then focus on
especially these chapters when you do
your study sessions. It is a classic
strategy of working smarter and not
harder. So I experienced an example of
that when I did my German A levels. Our
professors would focus on this one
specific book for three months and he
would make sure that we discuss all of
the analogies, all of the metafers. So I
was 99% sure that this will be the topic
in my A-level exams. And whilst most of
my other classmates focus on poems
because that's what they are more
familiar with, I focused specifically on
this book for my whole revisions. And I
was not surprised when I opened the exam
paper and I saw a chapter of the book.
And that year I was the only person
scoring full points in this exam. And in
my teacher's career, there were only
three people who ever achieved that,
including me. And that's not because I
was smarter, but because I knew exactly
what to study for. So understanding
which topics are likely to be covered in
the exam is so important to wisely
organize your study sessions. Also, if
you're taking A levels or taking
university exams, I really recommend
searching up the internet or asking
people in your year above what their
experience was like or what topics were
covered in last year exams cuz that
could always be a good indicator because
often from year to year, there are
certain trends of topics that are often
covered in those exams. This leads me to
my next point, which is tip number
three. Organize your time wisely. The
easiest way to do this is to create a
study plan and structure out what you're
going to study when. So, a quick
breakdown of how I do it is for each
exam I have, I write down every single
topic or subtopic that I need to be
confident in, and [music] then I
organize this into my calendar so I know
exactly what I want to achieve every
single day. Visualizing when you're
going to do what is so helpful to
identifying how much you can
realistically achieve in the time frame
you have. And it also removes this big
layer of feeling overwhelmed because you
know exactly where to start and where
you're going to be in the next days or
weeks. I actually plan out my whole week
in 1 hour time blocks and I did make a
video about it. So if you're curious on
how I structure my weeks and plan my
study sessions, I link it down in the
description below. Let's move on to note
takingaking. First tip is to prepare my
study materials as early as possible.
With any class that you take, even if
your exam is months away, start
preparing your study material as early
as possible because now is the time when
it's fresh in your mind. I actually only
started doing this during my masters and
I wish I could go back in time and tell
my younger self to start doing this
because after I applied this method, I
got top grades in every single exam I
had afterwards. So, what exactly did I
actually do? So every time I had a new
lecture or I had some reading to do, I
not only prepared my lecture notes or my
reading notes, but I also prepared
flashcards and exam questions with the
relevant answer. That way when it
actually came to exam season, I had so
much exam prep to already go through.
Before my masters, I used to start
creating these materials literally like
a month prior to an exam. And then it
used to take me days, if not a week, to
put all of these materials together. So,
this strategy not only saved me so much
time, but also brain energy because I
can now fully focus on actually getting
prepared for the exam because rather
than rereading chapters and trying to
identify which knowledge I know and
which knowledge I don't know, I could
instantly start testing myself on my
knowledge that I have or don't have.
Moving on to study methods. Don't
pretend to study, but be honest with
yourself and what you're actually doing.
I used to spend hours and hours in the
library reading chapters of a book,
highlighting and rewriting those things
as a summary in my notebook. If this
sounds like you, I have to tell you this
is such a big waste of time. And unless
you have a photographic memory, it is
very likely that you just won't remember
any of what you've just read just a
couple of hours later. Honestly, put
this to the test. Read a paragraph of
anything. And I bet you that literally
in just an hour, you won't remember half
of it. And that is really detrimental
for your exam because you feel like you
spent hours and hours in the library and
you've put in so much work only to
realize that once you sit in the exam
room and you see those questions that
you don't actually understand the topic
at all. Reading, highlighting, and
summarizing is just a form of passive
learning. It tricks your brain into
thinking that you're being productive,
but actually it's kind of like a
vacation for your brain because you're
not actually actively using it. Meaning
that when the information enters your
brain, you don't really utilize it. So,
it will be forgotten as quickly as it
has entered your brain. So instead you
need to use study methods that actively
engage your brain where you have to
think about the information or answers
to questions and where you test yourself
and where you identify do you actually
understand this topic. Very efficient
ways of active studying are flashcards,
mock exams, explaining things to people
or you could even use chatbt. So, if you
input all of your textbook information
into chatbt and then ask it to curate
exam questions, that's a really good way
to identify if you actually know the
answers. If you just read a text, you
have the answer right in front of it and
it makes sense to you. However, if you
read a question, you actively have to
engage your brain and you have to think
about the answer and you have to
formulate an answer in your own words.
Honestly, you'll be surprised about how
difficult it can be to formulate an
answer if you're not super comfortable
in a topic. But it is the best way to
holding yourself accountable on whether
or not you're confident in the subject
or not. Will it be more tiring and
energy draining? Definitely. But it is a
lot more effective and you actually have
to use a lot less time to study because
it is just a lot more efficient. So an
hour of active learning is so much
better than a 5hour session of just
rereading information. Tip number two is
[music] to ask questions. Yes, I used to
be that student that constantly raised
their hand in class to ask [music]
questions and do I regret it? Absolutely
not. If you go into a lesson thinking I
need to ask a question, it actually
actively forces you to listen to the
teacher and to trying to understand the
topic. you are not only less likely to
zone out, but also it gives you the
chance to talk about this topic actively
with either your teacher or your
classmates. Not only will it help you to
remember specific things better because
when you sit in the exam, you can think
back to this exact moment and it is
likely that you will kind of remember
what the answer to your question was
when you ask it. But also by asking
questions, you can ensure whether or not
you actually just understood what the
teacher told you. And if you're
generally a shy person, I'll let you in
on a little secret. Even if it seems
like everyone in your class understands
the topic because no one else is raising
their hand, chances are they do not. It
is very likely that most of them either
weren't listening at all, which to be
honest is their loss, or they are too
shy to ask as well. So, usually people
are rather relieved when someone else
asks a question because usually they did
have a similar question as well. So, it
doesn't only benefit you, but it also
benefits the people around you. Okay.
Let's move on to exam prep. Tip number
one is to practice exam conditions.
Honestly, two exams could have
completely different conditions and you
don't want to enter the exam room not
knowing what to expect. So, for example,
when I was in high school, my math exam
was made out of two sections. The first
one was like quick task where we weren't
allowed to use a calculator and we were
supposed to do this relatively quickly
and the second section were more complex
questions where we were allowed to use a
calculator and we were supposed to spend
a lot more time on that section. So if I
hadn't done any practice exams with
these conditions, I probably would have
spent way too much time on the first
section and then run out of time in the
second part of the exam. So
understanding how the exam will look
like is honestly key. Is your exam essay
based? If so, understand how the
structure of an essay should look like.
Is your exam composed of multiple choice
questions? Then there's no point in
trying to practice writing essays, but
you should do multiplechoice based mock
exams. Another thing to consider is
whether your exam will be on your laptop
or if you have to write it by hand. I
personally never write with my hand
anymore. So, if I know that my exam will
be 2 hours long and it will be
handwritten, I will have to practice
that. So I know that my hand is
conditioned enough to be able to write
for two hours straight. So practicing
the conditions of your exam will not
only help you to manage your time wisely
during your exam, but also now that
you're familiar with how everything is
set up, it will help you a lot more to
control your nerves when it comes to the
exam and you will feel a lot less
overwhelmed because you've done this
before. This is nothing new to you
anymore. And also I wanted to give a
little tip specifically for multiple
choice questions. So I did my A levels
in the German system and we didn't have
multiple choice really like everything
was essay based or short answer based.
So when I came to the UK and professors
here in the UK I love multiplechoice
exams. I used to do terrible because to
me the four given answers just seemed so
similar that I couldn't distinguish of
which one is actually the most right
one. So I just wanted to give a very
brief tips and tricks of what I figured
out throughout the years of how to
actually tackle these multiplechoice
exams successfully. Okay, the first one
is instead of trying to look for the
right answer, try to look for which
answers are definitely wrong because
then you can narrow down the answers
from four all the way to potentially
two. Also, I found that if you're not
sure between two answers, the longer and
more detailed ones are usually the
correct ones. And if there is one
outlier answer that is completely
different to the other three ones, that
one is definitely wrong and that can be
usually eliminated instantly. So these
were my key tips and tricks on how to
become an academic weapon. These tips
honestly really were a game changer for
me. If you have a strategy that really
works for you that I didn't mention, let
me know down in the comments. I would be
super curious to know. If you enjoyed
this video, give it a like and
subscribe. And I will see you next time.
Bye.